# Developer Resources

This document aims to guide users with recommended and advanced workflows to build and use Holoscan SDK. This is generally not the simplest way to use the SDK, so make sure to review the [project README](../README.md) before getting started.

> **⚠️ Disclaimer**: we only recommend building the SDK from source if you are a developer of the SDK, or need to build the SDK with debug symbols or other options not used as part of the published packages.
> - If you want to write your own operator or application, you can use the SDK as a dependency (and contribute to [HoloHub](https://github.com/nvidia-holoscan/holohub)).
> - If you need to make other modifications to the SDK, [file a feature or bug request](https://forums.developer.nvidia.com/c/healthcare/holoscan-sdk/320/all).
> - Refer to the [Holoscan SDK User Guide installation instructions](https://docs.nvidia.com/holoscan/sdk-user-guide/sdk_installation.html#install-the-sdk) for guidance on installing Holoscan SDK from published packages.

## Table of Contents

- [Building the SDK from source](#building-the-sdk-from-source)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [(Recommended) using the `run` script](#recommended-using-the-run-script)
  - [Cross-compilation](#cross-compilation)
  - [(Advanced) Docker + CMake](#advanced-docker--cmake)
  - [(Advanced) Local environment + CMake](#advanced-local-environment--cmake)
- [Runtime Container](#runtime-container)
- [Utilities](#utilities)
  - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Linting](#linting)
  - [VSCode](#vscode)

## Building the SDK from source

### Prerequisites

- Prerequisites for each supported platform are documented in [the user guide](https://docs.nvidia.com/holoscan/sdk-user-guide/sdk_installation.html#prerequisites).
- To build and run the SDK in a containerized environment (recommended) you'll need:
  - the [NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html) v1.12.2+
  - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/#install-using-the-repository), including the buildx plugin (`docker-buildx-plugin`)

### (Recommended) Using the `run` script

Call **`./run build`** within the repository to build the build container and the CMake project.

- *If you encounter errors during the CMake build, you can execute `./run clear_cache` to remove cache/build/install folders*
- *Execute `./run build --help` for more information*
- *Execute `./run build --dryrun` to see the commands that will be executed*
- *That command can be broken-up in more granular commands also:*

  ```sh
  ./run check_system_deps  # ensure the system is properly configured for building
  ./run build_image        # create the build Docker container
  ./run build              # run the CMake configuration, build, and install steps
  ```

Call the **`./run launch`** command to start and enter the build container.

- *You can run from the `install` or `build` tree by passing the working directory as an argument (ex: `./run launch install`)*
- *Execute `./run launch --help` for more information*
- *Execute `./run launch --dryrun` to see the commands that will be executed*
- *Execute `./run launch --run-cmd "..."` to execute a bash command directly in the container*

Run the [**examples**](./examples#readme) inside the container by running their respective commands listed within each directory README file.

### Cross-compilation

While the Dockerfile to build the SDK does not currently support true cross-compilation, you can compile the Holoscan SDK for the developer kits (arm64) from a x86_64 host using an emulation environment.

1. [Install qemu](https://github.com/multiarch/qemu-user-static)
2. Clear your build cache: `./run clear_cache`
3. Rebuild for `linux/arm64` using `--arch|-a` or `HOLOSCAN_BUILD_ARCH`:
    - `./run build --arch arm64`
    - `HOLOSCAN_BUILD_ARCH=arm64 ./run build`

You can then copy the `install` folder generated by CMake to a developer kit with a configured environment or within a container to use for running and developing applications.

### (Advanced) Docker + CMake

The [`run`](./run) script mentioned above is helpful to understand how Docker and CMake are configured and run, as commands will be printed when running it or using `--dryrun`.
We recommend looking at those commands if you want to use Docker and CMake manually, and reading the comments inside the script for details about each parameter (specifically the `build()` and `launch()` methods).

### (Advanced) Local environment + CMake

> **⚠️ Disclaimer**: this method of building the SDK is not actively tested or maintained. Instructions below might go out of date.

#### Software Requirements

To build the Holoscan SDK on a local environment, the following versions of dev dependencies are needed (or tested). The last column refers to the stage (`FROM`) in the [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) where respective commands can be found to build/install these dependencies.

| Dependency | Min version | Needed by | Dockerfile stage |
|---|---|---|---|
| CUDA | 12.6 | Core SDK | base |
| gRPC | 1.54.2 | Core SDK | grpc-builder |
| UCX | 1.17.0 | Core SDK | base |
| GXF | 4.1 | Core SDK | gxf-downloader |
| MOFED | 24.07 | ConnectX | mofed-installer |
| TensorRT | 10.3 | Inference operator | base |
| NVPL | 24.03 | LibTorch | build |
| ONNX Runtime | 1.18.1 | Inference operator | onnxruntime-downloader |
| LibTorch | 2.5.0 | Inference operator<br>(torch plugin) | torch-downloader-[x86_64\|arm64] |
| TorchVision | 0.20.0 | Inference operator<br>(torch plugin) | torchvision-downloader-[x86_64\|arm64] |
| Vulkan SDK | 1.3.216 | Holoviz operator | vulkansdk-builder |
| Vulkan loader and<br>validation layers | 1.3.204 | Holoviz operator | dev |
| spirv-tools | 2022.1 | Holoviz operator | dev |
| V4L2 | 1.22.1 | V4L2 operator | dev |
| CMake | 3.24.0 | Build process | build-tools |
| Patchelf | N/A | Build process | build-tools |

Note: refer to the [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) for other dependencies which are not needed to build, but might be needed for:

- runtime (openblas/mkl for torch, egl for headless rendering, cloudpickle for distributed python apps, cupy for some examples...)
- testing (valgrind, pytest, xvfb...)
- utilities (v4l-utils, ...)

For CMake to find these dependencies, install them in default system paths, or pass `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH`, `CMAKE_LIBRARY_PATH`, and/or `CMAKE_INCLUDE_PATH` during configuration.

#### Build example

```sh
# Configure
cmake -S $source_dir -B $build_dir \
  -G Ninja \
  -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
  -D CUDAToolkit_ROOT:PATH="/usr/local/cuda"

# Build
cmake --build $build_dir -j

# Install
cmake --install $build_dir --prefix $install_dir
```

The commands to run the [**examples**](./examples#readme) are then the same as in the dockerized environment, and can be found in the respective source directory READMEs.

## Runtime Container

There are multiple containers associated with Holoscan:

- The **build** container generated by the [top-level Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) is designed to pull dependencies to build and test the SDK itself. The image does not contain the SDK itself, as it is mounted with during `docker run` to run the cmake build or run tests.
- The **development** container available at [NGC | Holoscan Container](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/clara-holoscan/containers/holoscan/tags) which includes all the development tools and libraries needed to *build* Holoscan applications.
  - This image is ~13 GB when uncompressed. However, once a Holoscan application is created, it does not need all those same development tools just to *run* an application.
- To address this, a **runtime** container can now be generated with the [runtime_docker/Dockerfile](./runtime_docker/Dockerfile) which contains only the runtime dependencies of the Holoscan SDK.
  - This Dockerfile is based on the [CUDA-base](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/containers/cuda) image, which begins with Ubuntu:22.04 and installs the CUDA runtime and Compat package.
  - This image is ~8.7 GB on x86_64, and can be further reduced based on use cases (see below).

> ⚠️ Disclaimer: Currently iGPU is not supported by the runtime container

### Generate the runtime container

The [`run`](./run) script contains the command `build_run_image` to build the runtime Holoscan SDK image:

```bash
./run build_run_image
```

Once this image is built, it can be run exactly as the Holoscan development container on NGC is. Simply follow the 'Running the container' instructions beginning at step #3 at [NGC | Holoscan Container](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/clara-holoscan/containers/holoscan), but replace `${NGC_CONTAINER_IMAGE_PATH}` by `holoscan-sdk-run-<arch>[-<gpu>]` in step #4 (name outputted at the end of the above command).

### Further Reducing Runtime Size

If you have a specific application you wish to deploy, you can further reduce this runtime image size in two ways:

1. **Targeting different stages of the [runtime Dockerfile](./runtime_docker/Dockerfile)**.
   1. add `--cpp` to the command above to not pull in python dependencies.
   2. add `--cpp-no-mkl` to the command above to not pull in MKL (x86_64-only libtorch dependency) in addition to the above.

2. **Modifying the Dockerfile**

The [runtime Dockerfile](./runtime_docker/Dockerfile) is thoroughly documented to indicate which dependency is used by which component of the Holoscan SDK. If you do not use some of these components (ex: Torch inference backend, ONNX Runtime inference backend, TensorRT inference backend, Python/Cupy, format_converter operator, etc...), comment out the appropriate line in the Dockerfile and run the build command above.

## Utilities

Some utilities are available in the [`scripts`](./scripts) folder, others closer to the built process are listed below:

### Testing

Existing tests are using GTest for C++ and pytest for Python, and can be found under [tests](./tests/) and [python/tests](./python/tests/) respectively. The Holoscan SDK uses CTest as a framework to build and execute these tests.

Run the tests using the following command:

```sh
./run test
```

> Note: Run `run test --help` to see additional options.

### Linting

Run the following command to run various linting tools on the repository:

```sh
./run lint # optional: specify directories
```

> Note: Run `run lint --help` to see the list of tools that are used. If a lint command fails due to a missing module or executable on your system, you can install it using `python3 -m pip install <tool>`.

### Building the User Guide

The source of the user guide hosted at <https://docs.nvidia.com/holoscan/sdk-user-guide> is located in [docs](./docs/). It can be built with the following commands:

- PDF: `./run build_pdf`
- HTML: `./run build_html` (auto-reload: `./run live_html`)

Run `./run help` for more commands related to the user guide documentation.

### VSCode

Visual Studio Code can be utilized to develop the Holoscan SDK. The `.devcontainer` folder holds the configuration for setting up a [development container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers) with all necessary tools and libraries installed.

The `./run` script contains `vscode` and `vscode_remote` commands for launching Visual Studio Code in a container or from a remote machine, respectively.

- To launch Visual Studio Code in a dev container, use `./run vscode` (`-j <# of workers>` or `--parallel <# of workers>` can be used to specify the number of parallel jobs to run during the build process). For more information, refer to the instructions from `./run vscode -h`.
- To attach to an existing dev container from a remote machine, use `./run vscode_remote`. For more information, refer to the instructions from `./run vscode_remote -h`.

Once Visual Studio Code is launched, the development container will be built and the recommended extensions will be installed automatically, along with CMake being configured.

#### Configuring CMake in the Development Container

For manual configuration of CMake, open the command palette (`Ctrl + Shift + P`) and run the `CMake: Configure` command.

#### Building the Source Code in the Development Container

The source code in the development container can be built by either pressing `Ctrl + Shift + B` or executing `Tasks: Run Build Task` from the command palette (`Ctrl + Shift + P`).

#### Debugging the Source Code in the Development Container

To debug the source code in the development container, open the `Run and Debug` view (`Ctrl + Shift + D`), select a debug configuration from the dropdown list, and press `F5` to initiate debugging.
